{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1046{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\b\f0\fs22\lang22 FUNDAMENTA\'c7\'c3O TE\'d3RICA\par
MACEDO, Gustavo. CLIMATE SECURITY, THE AMAZON, AND THE RESPONSABILITY TO PROTECT. Brazilian Political Science Review. 2021.\b0\par
P\'e1gina 2:\par
\tab Indeed, the report \lquote State of the Global Climate 2020\rquote  - published in early  2021 by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO). After decades of decline, the number of people suffering from food insecurity has increased due to a combination of factors such as conflicts, economic crisis, climate variability, and extreme environmental conditions. By the end of 2020, approximately 690 million people, or 9% of the world population, suffered from malnutrition, and more than 750 million, or approximately 10% of the population, were exposed to severe levels of food insecurity (that is, without the guarantee of at least three meals a day).\par
\par
P\'e1gina 3:\par
\tab according to climatologist Carlos Nobre, a member of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), we might have already passed  the tipping point where the rainforest could turn to savannah.\par
\tab Nobre\rquote s statement is consistent with the study \lquote Carbon and Beyond: The Biogeochemistry of Climate in Rapidly Changing Amazon\rquote , which suggests that the dynamics of gaseous exchanges between the Amazon Forest and the atmosphere is already negative, that is, we may have already passed the tipping point so that the emission of gases from the forest might have started to accelerate climatic change (COVEY et al., 2021).\par
\tab Although the Amazon Forest is spread over nine South American countries, 60% of its land is inside Brazil\rquote s territory, reaffirming the importance of Brazil\rquote s active engagement in preservation initiatives in particular and global climate security in general.\ul\par
\ulnone\par
P\'e1gina 4:\par
\tab Other practical effects of climate change that could be driven by the destruction of the Amazon include loss of habitable and arable land due to droughts, melting ice and floods caused by rising sea levels or heavy storms, and forced migrations of hundreds of millions of people. Not to mention the risks to food supply chains and food security in developed and developing countries, as well as to energy supply due to dam collapse, droughts, and political and economic instability. Finally, there is the risk of future pandemics: humans are more exposed to new viruses because of deforestation and contact with new disease vectors found in the forest; it is known that \ldblquote the Amazon has thousands of coronaviruses\rdblquote  (MESQUITA, 2020).\par
\par
P\'e1gina 5:\par
\tab Brazil accepted its obligation to protect the forest and took a leadership role on the environmental issue, becoming a respected reference in the area. With the election of a far-right government in 2019, this situation was reversed. The balance between internal and external pressures was lost when the country started to promote a new agenda for environmental exploitation.\par
\tab\par
P\'e1gina 6:\par
\tab In fact, the environmental issue gained ground on the multilateral agenda with the Stockholm Conference in 1972, and it became a priority in 1987 with the publication of the report \lquote Our Common Future\rquote , headed by the World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED) of the United Nations (UN). The document introduced the concept of sustainable development - which is based on the conscious exploitation of natural resources - and stressed the possibility of combining environmental preservation with economic growth.\ul\par
\par
\ulnone P\'e1gina 7:\par
\tab To this end, the report offered three recommendations that remain valid to this day: to recognize the global and cross-border nature of environmental issues, to emphasize the need for international cooperation to design and implement an economic revolution based on environmental preservation, and to promote awareness and commitment of all sectors of society to this enterprise.\par
\par
P\'e1gina 12:\par
\tab In 2021, the UN Security Council recognized climate change as a multiplier of threats12, a notion close to the original idea of environmental security expressed in \lquote Our Common Future\rquote  in 1987, which stated that environmental issues could be among the causes and consequences of conflicts that threaten international peace and security. This means that the Council is moving towards the recognition that environmental factors are intervening variables in the construction of what should be understood as a threat.\par
\par
P\'e1gina 17:\par
\tab At first glance, protecting the Amazon may sound like protecting the fauna and flora from extermination. This is the \lquote ecocide\rquote  prevention thesis (GREENE, 2019), which refers to when human activity violates the principles of environmental justice by systematically damaging or destroying ecosystems or endangering the health and well-being of a species (including humans). Ecocide is an idea of the 1970s, but it is still not recognized as an international crime by the United Nations (AXWORTHY and ROCK, 2009). To assume that the lives of plants and animals are as sacred as those of humans seems yet a distant reality in the history of diplomacy.\par
\tab\par
\tab Cultural genocide or ethnocide is the most recent \f1\endash  and most fragile - thesis\f0\lang1046  \f1\lang22 in the current context. Cultural genocide or cultural cleansing is not an international crime recognized by international law. It is also terminologically inconsistent since \lquote genocide\rquote  means \lquote the extermination of the people\rquote , with ethnocide being the most appropriate term. Moreover, a consensus has not been reached on the meaning of cultural genocide. One of the most adopted definitions is from the Armenian Genocide Museum, which defines it as \ldblquote acts and measures undertaken to destroy nations \lquote or ethnic groups\rquote  culture... [through] national, spiritual, and cultural destruction\rdblquote  (\ldblquote THE ARMENIAN GENOCIDE MUSEUM\rdblquote  FOUNDATION, 2021).\par
\par
\f0\lang1046\tab That is, to protect native populations from a genocide that has been overlooked or even assisted by parts of the government itself. Equally controversial, this last argument is even more distanced from the traditional ecological agenda than the others, but it is the one most likely to be accepted multilaterally.\par
\par
P\'e1gina 23:\par
\tab Since the signing of the Paris Agreement in 2015 and the consequent recognition that countries urgently need to cut emissions, the notions of climate emergency and climate security have become increasingly popular in international public opinion.\par
\par
======================================================================================================================================================\par
\par
\b\par
New data infrastructures for environmental monitoring in Myanmar: Is digital transparency good forgovernance?\par
\b0\par
p\'e1gina 4:\par
\tab New data infrastructures can enable a broader range of non-state actors to participate in forest governance, or the ways that actors set political and economic objectives for forest use and access. Furthermore, new data infrastructures have shifted the capacity of state actors to enact governance by providing alternative expertise that undermines their authority\par
\par
p\'e1gina 8:\par
\tab  The arrival of new actors, funding, and digital technologies are expanding participation in environmental monitoring, giving voice to longstanding debates about the value and governance of resources.\par
\par
p\'e1gina 15:\par
\tab Digital forest monitoring looks very different depending on whether the resource is being  monitored by international NGOs aimed at conservation, traders facilitating sustainable timber, or ethnic minority communities protecting their way of life.\par
\par
P\'e1gina 17:\par
\tab Remote monitoring of natural resources and a corresponding push for data transparency has become integral to contemporary environmental governance initiatives around the world.\par
\par
======================================================================================================================================================\par
\b Uso de Blockchain para Registro de Dados deCadeia de Suprimentos Verde da Ind\'fastria Sucroenerg\'e9tica\par
\b0\par
p\'e1gina 3:\par
A Cadeia de Suprimentos Verde (CSV) surgiu da crescente press\'e3o para gerenciamento ambiental e produ\'e7\'e3o sustent\'e1vel de mat\'e9ria-prima e energia (SEMAN et al, 2012), com o objetivo de frear o aumento da polui\'e7\'e3o e o aquecimento global, por meio de imposi\'e7\'f5es pol\'edticas e financeiras para promover as mudan\'e7as tecnol\'f3gicas e sociais necess\'e1rias para atingir esse objetivo (HO et al, 2009).  A conscientiza\'e7\'e3o dos consumidores e do p\'fablico em geral sobre a necessidade de promover o desenvolvimento sustent\'e1vel e respeitar o meio ambiente tem modificado as atividades das cadeias de suprimentos para reduzir impactos ambientais negativos e priorizar a sustentabilidade.\par
\par
======================================================================================================================================================\par
\b\par
THE INFLUENCE of GREEN SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT(GSCM)  TOWARD ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE on AGRIBUSINESS APPLES\par
\par
\b0 P\'e1gina 9:\par
\tab The conclusions of this study are as follows : 1. the GSCM practices has a positive effect on economic performance, 2. the government support has a positive influence on the GSCM  practice in apple agribusiness, 3. the green market has a positive influence on the GSCM practice in apple agribusiness.\par
\par
\b\lang22 =====================================================================================================================================================\par
Environmental crime and green criminology in South Eastern Europe\f1\emdash practice and research\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10611-013-9419-0#Sec6 }}{\fldrslt{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10611-013-9419-0#Sec6\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\par
\b0\f0\lang1046\tab\f1\lang22 The development of green criminology can be seen as originating from the late 1960s and the beginning of the 1970s, when environmental sociologists and critical criminologists first emphasized the problem of environmental pollution and destruction.\par
\par
\f0\lang1046\tab We are still defining a common subject matter for criminological debates, identifying new forms of environmental crime and harm and asking about the perpetrators and victims of environmental crime, the process of forming criminal legislation and responding to environmental crime phenomena, and about the best way to take forward environmental crime prevention design.\par
\par
\par
\b\lang22\par
}
 